docs/index.md, before:

# Welcome to Photo-Composition-Designer

Photo-Composition-Designer is a tool designed to automate the creation of beautiful image-based calendars. The system sorts images, generates collages, adds descriptions and maps, and formats everything into a structured calendar layout.

[![Github CI Status](https://github.com/pamagister/Photo-Composition-Designer/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/pamagister/Photo-Composition-Designer/actions)
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/pamagister/Photo-Composition-Designer)](https://github.com/pamagister/Photo-Composition-Designer/releases)
[![Read the Docs](https://readthedocs.org/projects/Photo-Composition-Designer/badge/?version=stable)](https://Photo-Composition-Designer.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/pamagister/Photo-Composition-Designer)](https://github.com/pamagister/Photo-Composition-Designer/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/pamagister/Photo-Composition-Designer)](https://github.com/pamagister/Photo-Composition-Designer/issues)
[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/Photo-Composition-Designer)](https://pypi.org/project/Photo-Composition-Designer/)
[![Downloads](https://pepy.tech/badge/Photo-Composition-Designer)](https://pepy.tech/project/Photo-Composition-Designer/)



## 🛠️ Features

* ✅ **Automated Calendar Generation** – Generates a full image-based calendar.
* ✅ **Configurable Settings** – Modify sizes, layouts, and text via `config.yaml`.
* ✅ **Anniversaries & Events** – Load anniversaries and special dates using `anniversaries.ini`.
* ✅ **Location-Based Maps** – Integrate maps showing image locations using gps meta-data or image names and `locations.ini`.
* ✅ **GUI Configuration Tool** – Easily modify configurations via a dynamic UI.
* ✅ **Folder Management** – Automatically structures and organizes images into necessary folders.

![Main GUI](_static/img/gui_main.png)

---

## Installation via executable:

Download the latest executable:

- [⬇️ Download for Windows](https://github.com/pamagister/Photo-Composition-Designer/releases/latest/download/installer-win.zip)
- [⬇️ Download for Linux](https://github.com/pamagister/Photo-Composition-Designer/releases/latest/download/package-linux.zip)
- [⬇️ Download for macOS](https://github.com/pamagister/Photo-Composition-Designer/releases/latest/download/package-macos.zip)


## Installation via pypi

Get an impression of how your own project could be installed and look like.

Download from [PyPI](https://pypi.org/).

💾 For more installation options see [install](getting-started/install.md).

```bash
pip install Photo-Composition-Designer
```

Run GUI from command line

```bash
Photo-Composition-Designer
```

---


## 🔄 Workflow

### 1️⃣ **Configuring the parameters**
You can adjust the result by setting up your own parameters like size, margins and colors.
For more details, see [Configuration Parameters](usage/config.md).
Modify your settings inside the `config.yaml` or using the GUI:
- Image sizes (mm converted to pixels internally)
- Calendar layout
- Paths to `anniversaries.ini` and `locations.ini`
- Fonts and Colors

![Settings GUI](_static/img/gui_settings.png)


### 2️⃣ **Sorting Images into Folders**
Organize your images in the `images/` directory before running the generator.
You can use one of the distribution methods to distribute your plain images inside this directory
into sub-folders that represent your weekly collage content.

```plaintext
📁 images/
├── 📁 0-Title/
    ├── 2024-01-01_ski_trip.jpg
├── 📁 Week 1/
    ├── 2024-02-14_valentines_dinner in London.jpg
```

### 3️⃣ **Provide Descriptions** 🖥️
Provide descriptions for every week to describe the events.
You can use one single `description.txt` file that can be generated using the GUI
or you can put individual txt files into every single weekly sub folder.

### 4️⃣ **Setting up the birthday dates** 🎂📅
Provide the birthday information of your friends and family by using the `anniversaries.ini`

```plaintext
[Birthdays]

Paul = 6.1.1984
Peter = 08.01.99
Liz = 09.01.
Anna = 10.01.

[Weddings]
Mary & Josh = 02.01.2021    ; ⚭ Symbol is used for Weddings
```

### **Generating the Calendar** 🖼️
Use **Generate Composition** to generate all collages and one PDF file containing all your compositions.

---

If you find this app helpful, [Funding](funding/funding.md) is highly appreciated 🧡.

Commit message:

improve doc, add collages.png example image

docs/index.md, after:

# Welcome to Photo-Composition-Designer

Photo-Composition-Designer is a tool designed to automate the creation of beautiful image-based calendars. The system sorts images, generates collages, adds descriptions and maps, and formats everything into a structured calendar layout.

[![Github CI Status](https://github.com/pamagister/Photo-Composition-Designer/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/pamagister/Photo-Composition-Designer/actions)
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/pamagister/Photo-Composition-Designer)](https://github.com/pamagister/Photo-Composition-Designer/releases)
[![Read the Docs](https://readthedocs.org/projects/Photo-Composition-Designer/badge/?version=stable)](https://Photo-Composition-Designer.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/pamagister/Photo-Composition-Designer)](https://github.com/pamagister/Photo-Composition-Designer/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/pamagister/Photo-Composition-Designer)](https://github.com/pamagister/Photo-Composition-Designer/issues)
[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/Photo-Composition-Designer)](https://pypi.org/project/Photo-Composition-Designer/)
[![Downloads](https://pepy.tech/badge/Photo-Composition-Designer)](https://pepy.tech/project/Photo-Composition-Designer/)



## 🛠️ Features

* ✅ **Automated Calendar Generation** – Generates a full image-based calendar.
* ✅ **Configurable Settings** – Modify sizes, layouts, and text via `config.yaml`.
* ✅ **Anniversaries & Events** – Load anniversaries and special dates using `anniversaries.ini`.
* ✅ **Location-Based Maps** – Integrate maps showing image locations using gps meta-data or image names and `locations.ini`.
* ✅ **GUI Configuration Tool** – Easily modify configurations via a dynamic UI.
* ✅ **Folder Management** – Automatically structures and organizes images into necessary folders.

![Main GUI](_static/img/gui_main.png)

---

## Installation via executable:

Download the latest executable:

- [⬇️ Download for Windows](https://github.com/pamagister/Photo-Composition-Designer/releases/latest/download/installer-win.zip)
- [⬇️ Download for Linux](https://github.com/pamagister/Photo-Composition-Designer/releases/latest/download/package-linux.zip)
- [⬇️ Download for macOS](https://github.com/pamagister/Photo-Composition-Designer/releases/latest/download/package-macos.zip)


## Installation via pypi

Get an impression of how your own project could be installed and look like.

Download from [PyPI](https://pypi.org/).

💾 For more installation options see [install](getting-started/install.md).

```bash
pip install Photo-Composition-Designer
```

Run GUI from command line

```bash
Photo-Composition-Designer
```

---


## 🔄 Workflow

### 1️⃣ **Configuring the parameters**
You can adjust the result by setting up your own parameters like size, margins and colors.
For more details, see [Configuration Parameters](usage/config.md).
Modify your settings inside the `config.yaml` or using the GUI:
- Image sizes (mm converted to pixels internally)
- Calendar layout
- Paths to `anniversaries.ini` and `locations.ini`
- Fonts and Colors

![Settings GUI](_static/img/gui_settings.png)


### 2️⃣ **Sorting Images into Folders**
Organize your images in the `images/` directory before running the generator.
You can use one of the distribution methods to distribute your plain images inside this directory
into sub-folders that represent your weekly collage content.

```plaintext
📁 images/
├── 📁 title/
│   └── 🖼️ title_image.jpg
├── 📁 week_1/
│   ├── 🖼️ valentines_dinner_in_London.jpg
│   └── 🖼️ ski_trip.jpg
├── 📁 week_2/
│   ├── 🖼️ new_year_hike.jpg
│   ├── 🖼️ cooking_class.jpg
│   ├── 🖼️ first_snowfall.jpg
│   └── ...
└── 📄 descriptions.txt

```

### 3️⃣ **Provide Descriptions** 🖥️
Provide descriptions for every week to describe the events.

You can use one single `description.txt` file that can be generated using the GUI
or you can put individual txt files into every single weekly sub folder.

### 4️⃣ **Setting up the birthday dates** 🎂📅
Provide the birthday information of your friends and family by using the `anniversaries.ini`

```plaintext
[Birthdays]

Paul = 6.1.1984
Peter = 08.01.99
Liz = 09.01.
Anna = 10.01.

[Weddings]
Mary & Josh = 02.01.2021    ; ⚭ Symbol is used for Weddings
```

### 5️⃣ **Generating the Calendar** 🖼️
Use **Generate Composition** to generate all collages and one PDF file containing all your compositions.

![collages.png](_static/img/collages.png)

### 6️⃣ **Printing the Calendar** 🖨️
Send the generated PDF to your printer or local print shop for high-quality printing.

A very good print shop for Germany is [WIRmachenDRUCK ](https://www.wir-machen-druck.de/).

---

If you find this app helpful, [Funding](funding/funding.md) is highly appreciated 🧡.
