docs/usage/cli.md, before:

# Command Line Interface

Command line options for Photo_Composition_Designer

```bash
python -m Photo_Composition_Designer [OPTIONS] input
```

## Options

| Option                | Type | Description                                       | Default    | Choices       |
|-----------------------|------|---------------------------------------------------|------------|---------------|
| `input`               | str  | Path to input (file or folder)                    | *required* | -             |
| `--output`            | str  | Path to output destination                        | *required* | -             |
| `--min_dist`          | int  | Maximum distance between two waypoints            | 25         | -             |
| `--extract_waypoints` | bool | Extract starting points of each track as waypoint | True       | [True, False] |
| `--elevation`         | bool | Include elevation data in waypoints               | True       | [True, False] |


## Examples


### 1. Basic usage

```bash
python -m Photo_Composition_Designer input
```

### 2. With verbose logging

```bash
python -m Photo_Composition_Designer -v input
python -m Photo_Composition_Designer --verbose input
```

### 3. With quiet mode

```bash
python -m Photo_Composition_Designer -q input
python -m Photo_Composition_Designer --quiet input
```

### 4. With min_dist parameter

```bash
python -m Photo_Composition_Designer --min_dist 25 input
```

### 5. With extract_waypoints parameter

```bash
python -m Photo_Composition_Designer --extract_waypoints True input
```

### 6. With elevation parameter

```bash
python -m Photo_Composition_Designer --elevation True input
```

Commit message:

Use new updated config_cli_gui. Adjust parameters to the calendar project.

docs/usage/cli.md, after:

# Command Line Interface

Command line options for app

```bash
python -m app [OPTIONS] photoDirectory
```

## Options

| Option           | Type      | Description                                                                             | Default                               | Choices |
|------------------|-----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|---|
| `photoDirectory` | PosixPath | Path to the directory containing photos (absolute, or relative to this config.ini file) | *required*                            | - |
| `--startDate`    | datetime  | Start date of the calendar                                                              | datetime.datetime(2025, 12, 31, 0, 0) | - |
| `--width`        | int       | Width of the collage in mm                                                              | 216                                   | - |
| `--height`       | int       | Height of the collage in mm                                                             | 154                                   | - |


## Examples


### 1. Basic usage

```bash
python -m app photoDirectory
```

### 2. With verbose logging

```bash
python -m app -v photoDirectory
python -m app --verbose photoDirectory
```

### 3. With quiet mode

```bash
python -m app -q photoDirectory
python -m app --quiet photoDirectory
```

### 4. With startDate parameter

```bash
python -m app --startDate 2025-12-31 00:00:00 photoDirectory
```

### 5. With width parameter

```bash
python -m app --width 216 photoDirectory
```

### 6. With height parameter

```bash
python -m app --height 154 photoDirectory
```
